#Linux tips
##Low level partition formatting

It can be useful to perform a low level partition formatting. However, it might be problematic if you want to format some specific partition (the one where `/home` is mounted for example). In here, I'll just show you how to do it without the "full boot". First, you need to boot just like explained in the [`Modify files of your linux without booting on it`](https://blog.guillaume-gomez/Linux-tips/1/9) chapter. Once done, we can start!

###Get partitions' list and their sizes

This is the easy part. Just use the `fdisk` command like this:

```shell
> fdisk -l /dev/sda
# or just:
# > fdisk -l
```

At the end of the output, you should have the following:

```shell
Units: sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disklabel type: dos
Disk identifier: 0x136b232d

Device     Boot    Start      End  Sectors Size Id Type
/dev/sda1  *        2048 77596671 77594624  37G 83 Linux
/dev/sda2       77598718 94369791 16771074   8G  5 Extended
/dev/sda5       77598720 94369791 16771072   8G 82 Linux swap / Solaris
```

The important pieces of information here are:

```shell
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
```

And the `Sectors` column of the partitions.

###Formatting

Now, let's see how to format one of the previous partitions. However: _BE VERY CAREFUL!!!_. Once done, you cannot get back the erased data!

In this example, I'll format the `/dev/sda1` partition.

First, get the `Sectors` number corresponding to the partition you want to format (77594624 for me). Then take the I/O optimal size (512 here) and the Sector logical size (512 once again).

Now that you have your 3 numbers, you'll need to do 2 things:

 * First, divide the I/O optimal size by the Sector logical size (so for me: 512 / 512).
 * Second, divide the Sectors number by the result of the previous operation (so for me: 77594624 / 1).

All good? Great, now we can actually start the formatting!

First let's take a look to what we'll do:

```shell
dd bs=[I/O optimal size] [result of the second division (77594624 / 1)] if=[device on which we'll read new data] [partition on which we'll write them]
```

And now in practice:

```shell
dd bs=512 count=77594624 if=/dev/zero of=/dev/sda1
```

If you want a bit more security, you can replace `/dev/zero` by `/dev/urandom` if you want to have your partition filled with random numbers instead of zeros.

This operation can take quite a while depending on your harddrive writing speed, so don't worry if it takes time!
