#Linux tips
##Playing with sudoers file

This is "just" some explanations and examples about the sudoers file and how it works. For more information, don't hesitate to read the sudoers manual `man sudoers`.

Be __very__ careful when you modify this file, it could create really BIG issues. To prevent most of them, it is __very__ recommended to edit the sudoers file (located in `/etc/sudoers`) with the `visudo` command.

### Let's start!

For these explanations, we'll test with `insults` parameter (when you enter an invalid password for sudo command, it'll display some "messages").

If you want to modify defaults for everyone:

```Shell
Defaults insults
```

For one (or more) user:

```Shell
Defaults:user1 insults # for one
Defaults:user1,user2,user3 insults # for more
```

When you run as an other user (for example, when you use 'sudo -u user1 bash'):

```Shell
Defaults>user1 insults
Defaults>user1,user2,user3 insults
```

You can as well do it with an host list (with '@') and a command list (with '!'):

```Shell
Defaults@localhost insults # /!\ if you connect from another computer (with ssh for example), this won't apply
Defaults!/bin/ls insults
```

Just like for hosts/users/commands/run as, you can set multiple parameters, separated by ',':

```Shell
Defaults@localhost insults,targetpw
```

However you can't mix default types:

```Shell
Defaults@localhost:user1 insults # doesn't work!
```

### User specification

Now, if you want a more precise control over a specified user, you can use user specification. The base syntax is the following: `who where = (as_whom) what`. Example:

`user1 ALL = (user2) /bin/ls`

Here, the user `user1` on/from every computer may run `/bin/ls` only as `user2` (equivalent of `sudo -u user2 /bin/ls`).

You can also specify one (or more) group:

```Shell
user1 ALL = (user2 : some_group, some_other_group) /bin/ls
```

Which means that the command can be run with either `user1` current group or `some_group` or `some_other_group`. So the following commands are all correct:

```Shell
sudo -u user2 /bin/ls
sudo -u user2 -g some_group /bin/ls
sudo -g some_group /bin/ls
sudo -u user2 -g some_other_group /bin/ls
```

Just like groups, you can set multiple users and multiple commands at once:

```Shell
user1 ALL = (user2, user3 : some_group, some_other_group) /bin/ls, /bin/grep
```

Or just one group without specifying a user:

```Shell
user1 ALL = (: some_group, some_other_group) /bin/ls, /bin/grep
```

And you can also set specific commands for differents users/groups:

```Shell
user1 ALL = (user2 : some_group) /bin/ls, (user3) /bin/grep
```

`/bin/ls` may be launched as `user2` or `some_group` and `/bin/grep` may be launched as `user3`.

And also, you can set those parameters for a group, a "run as" or a host:

```Shell
%sudo ALL=(ALL) ALL # so every member of the sudo group has root access
```

### Tags

From the man: "A command may have zero or more tags associated with it.  There are ten possible tag values: NOPASSWD, PASSWD, NOEXEC, EXEC, SETENV, NOSETENV, LOG_INPUT, NOLOG_INPUT, LOG_OUTPUT and NOLOG_OUTPUT. Once a tag is set on a Cmnd, subsequent Cmnds in the Cmnd_Spec_List, inherit the tag unless it is overridden by the opposite tag (in other words, PASSWD overrides NOPASSWD and NOEXEC overrides EXEC)."

I'll let you read the manual to know what each tag does. Now let's take some examples:

```Shell
user1 ALL = NOPASSWD: /bin/ls, /bin/grep
```

In here, `user1` on/from any computer will be able to run `/bin/ls` and `/bin/grep` as `root` without authenticating himself.

Just like [user specification](self#user_specification), you can set multiple tags on one line:

```Shell
user1 ALL = NOPASSWD: /bin/ls, PASSWD: /bin/grep
```

### Alias

You can declare four types of alias:

* User alias (wrote `User_Alias`)
* Run as alias (wrote `Runas_Alias`)
* Host alias (wrote `Host_Alias`)
* Command alias (wrote `Cmnd_Alias`)

An example will better than a speech:

```Shell
User_Alias PEOPLE = user1, user2, user3

Defaults:PEOPLE insults
PEOPLE ALL = NOPASSWD: ALL # however, you'd better avoid to write this
```

Now, I guess you could easily give rights for `user1` to log as `root`, no?

```Shell
user1 ALL=(ALL) ALL
```

### The '!' operator

Adding '!' before a command/variable/tag/whatever means it'll revert its effets. So `!ALL` means no one. You can put more than one, of course (so '!!' will very likely do nothing whereas '!!!' will certainly do the same as '!'). Example:


```Shell
!PEOPLE ALL=(ALL) ALL # so all people not in PEOPLE will be able to log as root
```

### Mixup

This part will be short. You can mix tags and user specifications. Example:

```Shell
user1 ALL=NOPASSWD: /bin/ls, (root)
```

### Check your sudoers files

Once you have finish to modify it (without `visudo`), you can check it with the following command:

```Shell
sudo visudo -cf path/to/sudoers
```

Enjoy!
