#Linux tips
##Change user default login command

I needed to change the login command to execute a script of my own when a user logged in for the first time. At first, I changed the `.bashrc` file to execute it from there, but it had some bothering disadvantages. So I decided to go lower and finally found what I was looking for by changing directly `/etc/passwd`.

###/etc/passwd

This file contains a lot of useful information (such as encrypted password, users' login, user id (if 0, it's supposed to be root), group, login commands, home directory, etc...). It looks like this:

```Shell
root:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash
```

Each column of this file is separated by ':' and a line equals a row. So first is the login and last is the login command (I think you can guess pretty well what are the other fields). You can edit this file by hand if you want (even if I don't recommend it) or use commands which will do it for you (and avoid doing crap).

###chsh

`chsh` is certainly the best I know for doing this. I'll show how to use it with `sudo` command:

```Shell
sudo chsh -s /bin/my_super_script the_user_i_want_to_modify
```

All login commands paths have to be __absolute__! Also, if you don't specify an user, `chsh` will be executed for the current user (so `root` here).

###useradd

In this case, it's only if you create a new user. `useradd` command has also a `-s` option which allow to change the login command as well. Example:

```Shell
useradd -s /bin/my_super_script the_user_i_want_to_create
```

The login command path still must be __absolute__!

If you want more information, don't hesitate to take a look at their manual.
